# 2. Prerequisites

A **computer** is an electronic device that stores, retrieves, and processes data.

An **operating system** is a software that manages all of the hardware and software of a computer.

An **application** is a software that allows you to perform specific tasks.

A software application can either be open-source or closed-source.

- **Open-source software** is software where the source code is publicly available. Programmers can read and edit the source code if they desire.

- **Closed-source software** is software where the source code is not publicly available.

A **web server** is a computer that hosts a website on the Internet.

A **network** is a set of connected computers that exchange information which each other.

The **Internet** is a gigantic global network of gazillions of computers.

An **IP address** is an address that identifies a computer on the Internet.

A **router** is a smaller computer that acts as a mailman between computers in the network. It makes sure that a message sent from a computer arrives at the right destination computer.

An **ISP** (Internet Service Provider) is a company that manages connected special routers which are also connected to other ISP networks.

When a message is sent across the Internet, it is split into small data chunks called **packets**. This makes it more secure and more efficient to transfer data across the web.

A **client** is a computer that requests and receives services from a website. A **server** is a computer that hosts a website on the Internet.

A **web page** is a document that is hosted by a server on the Internet.

A **web browser** is a program that allows its users to visit websites.

A **search engine** is a website that allows its users to find other websites (i.e. navigate the Internet).

The **Domain Name System** (DNS) is a software that converts hostnames into IP addresses.
