# 3. Command Line

## The Unix Shell

This section contains my notes as I work on Software Carpentry's [The Unix Shell](https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/).

The **file system** is the part of the operating system responsible for managing files and directories.

- `pwd` prints out the current working directory.

- `ls` prints out the names of the files and directories in the current working directory (alphabetically).

  - `ls -F` prints out the names of the files and directories with classification markers (/ = directory, @ = link, \* = executable, no classifier = file). `ls -F + directory_name` lists contents in a directory other than the current working directory (e.g. `ls -F Desktop` lists contents of the Desktop directory).

  - `man ls` redirects to the manual page of the `ls` command. To quit the manual page, press Q.

  - `ls -l` performs `ls` with a long listing format. Adding `-h` to the command makes the file size human-readable (i.e. 5.3K instead of 5369).

  - `ls -t` lists items by last updated time.

  - `ls -r` lists the contents of a directory in an alphabetically reverse order. `ls -r -t -l` or `ls -rtl` lists the last updated item last along with other information (including the items' last updated time).

- `cd` (or `cd ~`) redirects the working directory to the home directory. `cd + directory_name` redirects the working directory to a sub-directory of the current working directory

  - `cd ..` redirects the current working directory to its **parent** directory.

  - `cd -` redirects the current working directory to the previous working directory.

A **relative path** describes the location of a file/directory relative to the current working directory.

An **absolute path** describes the location of a file/directory from the root directory.

## Review

The **command line** is the interface where we can communicate with the computer using shell commands. To open the command line on MacOS, simply open "Terminal".
